XS✔ ◾ updated rule - fixed formatting and added more content (#8372)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/do-you-know-the-common-design-patterns-part-2-example/rule.md

  url: https://ssw.com.au/people/adam-stephensen
- title: Eric Phan
  url: https://ssw.com.au/people/eric-phan
- title: Dhruv Mathur
  url: https://ssw.com.au/people/dhruv-mathur
related:
- do-you-name-your-dependencies-to-avoid-problems-with-minification
redirects:
- do-you-know-the-common-design-patterns-(part-2-example)

---

Appropriate use of design patterns can ensure your code is maintainable and easy to read.

<!--endintro-->

### Dependency Injection

We should implement Inversion of Control by using the Dependency Injection pattern to decrease the direct coupling of our classes. Seprating the creation of objects or instances of services from thier usage allows for more flexibility and testability.

> Lets look at a example, in this code, our controller is tightly coupled to the ExampleService and as a result, there is no way to unit test the controller.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lets look at an example, in this code, our controller is tightly coupled to the ExampleService and as a result, there is no way to unit test the controller.
```

    }

    public ActionResult Index()
    {
        return View(_service.GetSomething());
    }
}
```

**❌ Figure: Bad example - 2nd attempt using an Inversion of Control container but \*not\* using dependency injection. A dependency now exists on the Container.**

This is bad code because we removed one coupling but added another one (the container).

```csharp
public class HomeController
{
    private readonly IExampleService _service;

    public HomeController(IExampleService service)
    {
        _service = service;
    }

    public ActionResult Index()
    {
        return View(_service.GetSomething());
    }
}
```

**✅ Figure: Good example - code showing using dependency injection. No static dependencies.**

### Code against Interfaces

Always code against an interface rather than a concrete implementation. Use dependency injection to control which implementation the interface uses. By doing this you create a contract for that service which the rest of the codebase has to adhere to.

By creating an interface for each service and programming against the interface, you can easily swap out the implementation of the service without changing the code that uses the service.

> You can register the concrete implementation in the DI container as a singleton, scoped or transient service. This can be done directly in the program.cs or startup.cs file or can be written in static extension methods.

Reviewer: I'd remove the last part to make it future-proof and framework-agnostic.

```suggestion
It is important to also control the scope of the injection. For example, in ASP.NET 8 application you have the option to register the concrete implementation in the DI container either as a singleton, scoped, or transient service. Each of them will have a different lifetime in the application and should be set as per the requirement.
```
